The way you sit or stand reveals more than what the naked eye can see. Do you sway while you stand? Maybe you have high levels of anxiety. Is your back almost always slouched? You might be harbouring sadness in your life.
Your bodily imbalances and weak spots are trying to tell you something, but are you listening?
Psychologist Dr Seema Hingorany decodes why it's important to know your body and posture, as it speaks volumes about your personality and self-confidence. "Both these ingredients are needed for overall hoslitic development in the person. It is immensely important to be comfortable with your body—its movements and flow."
Pick your postures
1. Humpback
A humpback or a slouched back can be caused due to a personal habit of sitting or standing or work requirements that might make you slouch.
Effects: The humpback might cause a permanent wrong posture, which can further hamper the body image.
Personality traits: "It indicates a person with low self-confidence who is haboring conflicts and sadness," explains Dr Hingorany.
Improve it: Avoid the humpback by consciously trying to keep your back straight and excercising regularly. Dr Hingorany suggests yoga and jogging. "Always be aware of your wrong posture, so that you can correct it when it happens."
2. Swaying while you stand
Effects: Swaying your body stops you from getting stability in your body postures. "The body posture shows a very weak personality who is helpless," explains Dr Hingorany.
Personality traits: It protrays a very fragile mind and body, high levels of anxiety and a very indecisive person who is constantly thinking.
Improve it: Grounding techniques can really help stop swaying your body. "These techniques help you keep your feet firm on the ground while you concentrate on your breathing, in turn keeping you firmly rooted for a few minutes and giving strength to your body muscles."
3. Head carried forward
This posture indicates hyper activity and restlessness and is generally caused by hyper personality syndrome. People who are curious and suspicious by nature usually have their head carried forward.
Effects: The head might have frequent aches and pains as the alignment of body and head is improper.
Personality traits: The person is very anxious and their mind is on information overload all the time. "This results in a hyper personality," says Dr Hingorany.
Improve it: Frequent slow head movement excercises can really help. "One of the most important resource is to exercise and jog regularly to reduce hyperactivity," explains Dr Hingorany.
