---
title: Publising the page in Amazon 
layout: default
---
###Building the Website

Jekyll websites are configured based on the contents of several files and folders. To begin, create a folder somewhere on your hard drive and open a Command Prompt window or Terminal session. You will also want to cd into this folder so that we can generate the website.

_config.yml

All configuration is done using the YAML format. Primarily, you’ll keep these configuration variables in a file called _config.yml. To configure Jekyll, create a file called _config.yml with a plain text editor. You do not want to use an editor like Microsoft Word, WordPad, or TextEdit in rich text mode. Notepad on Windows or programs such as Sublime Text 2, Notepad++, or other plain text editors should be used to edit files for your Jekyll website.

Place the following content in the configuration file:

<p>
  <pre>
    name: ""
    description: ""

    url: "[YOUR DOMAIN]"

    paginate: 10

    markdown: rdiscount
    permalink: pretty
    pygments: true
  </pre>


</p>

If you didn’t install Pygments earlier, remove the pygments: true line in the configuration file above.

Ensure you replace “[YOUR DOMAIN]” with your website’s domain name, without a trailing slash. For now, you should use “http://localhost:4000”, since this is the server we’ll use for development.

You’ll also see I’ve omitted a name and description above. Be sure to enter your own inside of the quotation marks. It’s also worth noting that you do not need to surround a string with quotation marks unless it contains specific characters, like the colon (“:”) in the URL.

_includes

If you’re familiar with the idea of “template partials” (or Wordpress’s get_header() command), the includes directory serves the same purpose. It allows theme builders to have common files, like a header or footer, that are shared between posts and pages. For now, just create a folder in your website’s root called _includes. Note the underscore at the beginning of the folder’s name– this is important. Files and folders with underscores prepending the name will not be copied to the final, generated website.

_layouts

Also used in themes is a folder called _layouts. This stores all of your posts’ layout files. For example, on my website, I have several layouts. Most blog posts use a layout called post, containing the text content of each post, share buttons, and Disqus comments. Other pages use a variation of the posts layout, called posts-no-comments, that omits the comments and share buttons. I also have separate layouts for my portfolio as well as full width content pages.

For now, just create a folder called _layouts. We’ll populate this folder later with the theme we build.

_posts

Finally, create a folder called _posts. This will contain the source Markdown (or HTML/Textile) files for all of your blog posts. If you do not wish to create a blog, you do not have to create this folder.

Once all of this is done, your website’s folder should look like the following.

Folder structure

If so, you can now go back to your Terminal or Command Prompt session and type the command jekyll. Once the command completes, you should see a “successful” message that states your website is located within the _site directory.


Jekyll command results

Of course, no folder will actually be created because we haven’t added any real content yet.

Adding Content

All pages and blog posts in a Jekyll site are simple text files that have content processors associated wiht them. In Jekyll, all pages are processed and then copied into the same location they started at relative to the website’s root. That means if you have a /index.md file in your website’s root folder, it will be processed and copied into _site/index.html. Similarly, a page under about/index.html will ultimately be processed and copied to _site/about/index.html. This allows you to create static pages where your want on your website.

To demonstrate this, create a file called index.md. This file should be located in the website’s root alongside _config.yml. Notice we also do not have a prepended underscore since we do want this file processed and copied to the final generated site.

Add some content into the file. You can either use your own, or copy and paste the example Markdown below.


# Hello World

Proin eleifend libero accumsan felis luctus nec consectetur purus commodo. \
Phasellus sodales est nec massa imperdiet commodo. Maecenas risus nulla, pl\
acerat vel vestibulum vel, dapibus quis libero.

Donec libero libero, bibendum non condimentum ac, ullamcorper at sapien. Du\
is feugiat urna vel justo cursus facilisis. Vivamus ligula dui, convallis a\
 varius vitae, facilisis eget magna.
Before you save this and generate the site, you also need to add one thing to the beginning of the file called “front matter.” Front matter is a mini-configuration block that tells Jekyll about the page, including its title, layout, and other information. Front matter is placed inside of two sets of three dashes, like the following:
>
\---
>
title: Hello, World
>
\---

Place the above front matter block before your Markdown text inside of the index.md file.

The front matter is important, as Jekyll will only process files that begin with the front matter block.

Once you’ve done this, go back to the command line and run jekyll again. You’ll notice that this time, a _site folder was created with a single file: index.html. Open the index.html file in your browser and you’ll see the Markdown was processed into HTML and copied to the appropriate file. Remember, this _site folder is ultimately what you deploy on your web server.

Using Auto-Generate and the Jekyll Server

Typing jekyll every time you make a change is time consuming. Fortunately, Jekyll has a method of auto-generating the website every time a file changes. We also want to run a local web server so that we can type http://localhost:4000 in your web browser to see the website. These two options are turned on by the command line switches, --auto and --server, respectively. To activate both, use the command jekyll --auto --server in your command line.

If you did everything right, go ahead and open a browser and navigate to http://localhost:4000 and you should see the single index.html page you created early.

To test the auto-regeneration, go back into your text editor and make some changes to index.md. After you save the file and refresh your browser, you should see the changes you made without having to type jekyll into the command line again.

Building the Theme

Now that you understand Jekyll’s content processor, we can build a theme for our website. While you can always follow along to the letter, those with HTML and CSS skills may want to consider creating their website design from scratch for a challenge.

Download Bootstrap

To start, head to the Twitter Bootstrap page and download the framework. If you’d like to optimize your website a little further, you may also want to consider building a custom Bootstrap package and removing the elements you do not need. In particular, you may want to consider unchecking the “Icons” box under the Base CSS header if you will be using an icon font like Font Awesome, Elusive, or Icomoon.

Once you’ve downloaded the files, place them into the root directory of your website. Your directory should now have the following in it:

Folder structure

Creating a Layout

Remember the _layouts folder we created at the beginning? This is where it’s put to use. Create a new file in the _layouts folder called default.html. This will be the default layout we use on all posts and pages and will contain the header, menu, and footer of all pages.

In the default.html file, place the following content.
[[gittip_button username=foo]]